Introspection is costly. In life as well as programming. In both counts, the
cost of time. Life is much less strictly organized however, so the scheduled
introspection may never even get called.

Right now I'm at a train station. I just got off the high speed train that I've
been riding for 8 years. It took me across the country, past a handful of
relationships, around 10 different homes, and at least 3 different versions of
myself. The train station, I think, is the best place to introspect. You don't
have to pay attention to the forks in the tracks and actively tell the operator
which one to take. Instead you can look at the map and think. Deeply think.
about where you want to end up. 

That't not to say that the map you're looking at is even remotely accurate. It
probably isn't. But you don't want to get on the train that you aren't even
commited to. What's the point then? To ride and grow old and die?  
I catch myself thinking life is a video game. Thinking that in other run, I'd
specialize in this skill or that activity. It's a dream that shields me from the
realization that this is my only chance. This is it. That's why I need to use
all the hints I can get to be able to get on the best train for me.

This train station is an odd one. I'm the only one on the platform, but there's
a crowd of people watching me from the outside. The station is a stage or cage.
I'm not the center of attention here, don't get me wrong. Rather it's like a
mediocre zoo, where passerbys shout suggestions or observations. The station
isn't quiet and it isn't peaceful. In this environment, the station is almost
forcing you onto a train as fast as possible. But I'm not ready. I need to
figure out my train.
